docs: add migration guide and notes for ink! v6 support (#28)
r0gue-io/pop-docs: pop-cli-for-smart-contracts/guides/migrating-to-inkv6.md

---

> description: This guide will show you how to start experimenting with ink! v6

Author: https://github.com/r0gue-io/pop-docs/pull/28/commits/b4ae8a8d7245c93a405d61f0e332de64cffa8483

---

# Migrating from ink! v5 (Wasm) to ink! v6 (PolkaVM / RISC-V)

> Pop CLI version `v0.7.0` introduces experimental support for ink! v6 smart contracts running on PolkaVM (RISC-V) via `pallet-revive`. This guide helps you transition from ink! v5 (WebAssembly) and start experimenting with ink! v6.

Author: Agree! https://github.com/r0gue-io/pop-docs/pull/28/commits/4752f7ee5f8e51d6c3319a4130537b01355871d8

### What's new in ink! v6?

> - **ink! v5**: Compiled smart contracts to WebAssembly (Wasm) binaries executed by Substrate's `pallet-contracts`.

Author: https://github.com/r0gue-io/pop-docs/pull/28/commits/4752f7ee5f8e51d6c3319a4130537b01355871d8

> - **ink! v6**: Compiles smart contracts to RISC-V binaries executed by `pallet-revive` using PolkaVM.

Author: https://github.com/r0gue-io/pop-docs/pull/28/commits/4752f7ee5f8e51d6c3319a4130537b01355871d8

For more information about the benefits of RISC-V and `pallet-revive`, see [RISC-V + pallet-revive](https://use.ink/6.x/current-state#-risc-v--pallet-revive-2025).

### Installing Pop CLI for ink! v6 support

Pop CLI supports ink! v6 through the `polkavm-contracts` feature flag. Install it with:

```
cargo install --force --locked pop-cli --no-default-features -F polkavm-contracts,parachain
```

### Getting started with ink! v6

The workflow for developing smart contracts remains similar to ink! v5. To get started, see our guide:
[Create a new contract](./create-a-new-contract.md).

#### Migrating existing ink! smart contracts
If you already have an ink! smart contract, update your dependencies as follows:
Update your `Cargo.toml`

```
[dependencies]
ink = { version = "6.0.0-alpha", default-features = false }

[dev-dependencies]
ink_e2e = { version = "6.0.0-alpha" }
```

For a complete example, check the [ink! flipper example](https://github.com/use-ink/ink-examples/tree/v6.x/flipper).

> #### Account Mapping

Author: You are right, it needs a bit more context: 
```
PolkaVM uses 20-byte accounts (like `EVM`), while many chains in the Polkadot ecosystem use 32-byte accounts (`AccountId32`). To ensure compatibility, `pallet_revive` provides a mapping feature that lets 32-byte accounts seamlessly interact with the VM.
When interacting with `pallet_revive` for the first time, you’ll need to map your account, this registers your 32-byte account to a corresponding 20-byte address, enabling it to interact with contracts.
```

---

> description: This guide will show you how to start building with ink! v6

Author: I like yours more: https://github.com/r0gue-io/pop-docs/pull/28/commits/c69b01ec1a4555b2271fb6bd46f0d3c96a2b4b77

---

# Getting Started with ink! v6

> Pop CLI version `v0.7.0` introduces experimental support for ink! v6 smart contracts running on PolkaVM (RISC-V) via `pallet-revive`. This guide helps you transition from ink! v5 (WebAssembly) and start experimenting with ink! v6.

Author: https://github.com/r0gue-io/pop-docs/pull/28/commits/c69b01ec1a4555b2271fb6bd46f0d3c96a2b4b77

- **ink! v5**: Version of the ink! that can be compiled into WebAssembly byte code and can be executed on [`pallet-contracts`](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/tree/master/substrate/frame/contracts) virtual machine.
- **ink! v6**: Version of ink! that can be compiled into RISC-V byte code and can be executed on PolkaVM ([`pallet-revive`](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/tree/master/substrate/frame/revive)).

For more information about the benefits of RISC-V and `pallet-revive`, see [RISC-V + pallet-revive](https://use.ink/6.x/current-state#-risc-v--pallet-revive-2025).

### Installing Pop CLI for ink! v6 support

Pop CLI supports ink! v6 through the `polkavm-contracts` feature flag. Install it with:

```
cargo install --force --locked pop-cli --no-default-features -F polkavm-contracts,parachain
```

### Getting started with ink! v6

The workflow for developing smart contracts remains similar to ink! v5. To get started, see our guide:
[Create a new contract](./create-a-new-contract.md).

#### Migrating existing ink! smart contracts
If you already have an ink! smart contract, update your dependencies as follows:
Update your `Cargo.toml`

```
[dependencies]

> ink = { version = "6.0.0-alpha", default-features = false }

Author: Yes. But with the note above is enough, is in the same page.

[dev-dependencies]
ink_e2e = { version = "6.0.0-alpha" }
```

For a complete example, check the [ink! flipper example](https://github.com/use-ink/ink-examples/tree/v6.x/flipper).

#### Account Mapping

> PolkaVM uses 20-byte accounts (like `EVM`), while many chains in the Polkadot ecosystem use 32-byte accounts (`AccountId32`). To ensure compatibility, `pallet_revive` provides a mapping feature that lets 32-byte accounts seamlessly interact with the VM.

Author: I didn't find any good resource explaining this, any suggestions?

When interacting with `pallet_revive` for the first time, you’ll need to map your account, this registers your 32-byte account to a corresponding 20-byte address, enabling it to interact with contracts.

Pop CLI will prompt you automatically:

<figure><img src=".gitbook/assets/map_account_prompt.png" alt="Map Account Pop CLI"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

> Alternatively, you can Polkadot JS UI:

Author: https://github.com/r0gue-io/pop-docs/pull/28/commits/c69b01ec1a4555b2271fb6bd46f0d3c96a2b4b77

- **ink! v6**: Version of ink! that can be compiled into RISC-V byte code and can be executed on PolkaVM ([`pallet-revive`](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/tree/master/substrate/frame/revive)).

For more information about the benefits of RISC-V and `pallet-revive`, see [RISC-V + pallet-revive](https://use.ink/6.x/current-state#-risc-v--pallet-revive-2025).

### Installing Pop CLI for ink! v6 support

Pop CLI supports ink! v6 through the `polkavm-contracts` feature flag. Install it with:

```
cargo install --force --locked pop-cli --no-default-features -F polkavm-contracts,parachain
```

> **⚠️ Note:** Make sure you're using `Rust 1.85` or higher, older versions will fail to compile. You can check your version with rustc `--version`.

### Getting started with ink! v6

The workflow for developing smart contracts remains similar to ink! v5. To get started, see our guide:
[Create a new contract](./create-a-new-contract.md).

#### Migrating existing ink! smart contracts
If you already have an ink! smart contract, update your dependencies as follows:
Update your `Cargo.toml`

> ```
> [dependencies]
> ink = { version = "6.0.0-alpha", default-features = false }
> 
> [dev-dependencies]
> ink_e2e = { version = "6.0.0-alpha" }
> ```

Reviewer: Would add `toml` to the markdown code snippet
```suggestion
``` toml
[dependencies]
ink = { version = "6.0.0-alpha", default-features = false }

[dev-dependencies]
ink_e2e = { version = "6.0.0-alpha" }
```
```

Author: Nice https://github.com/r0gue-io/pop-docs/pull/28/commits/baa6f7f481a0ca5319772ad737b2493ca782cf2e

For a complete example, check the [ink! flipper example](https://github.com/use-ink/ink-examples/tree/v6.x/flipper).

#### Account Mapping

> PolkaVM uses 20-byte accounts (like `EVM`), while many chains in the Polkadot ecosystem use 32-byte accounts (`AccountId32`). To ensure compatibility, `pallet_revive` provides a mapping feature that lets 32-byte accounts seamlessly interact with the VM.

Reviewer: I might tweak this section to focus less on the VM, and more on the pallets. I don't believe PolkaVM inherently forces a 20-byte account, while pallet-revive does.

So, although mentioning the VMs is good, I believe it will be more technically accurate to say that pallet-revive allows deploying and executing PolkaVM smart contracts.

Author: You are right, should be `pallet_revive` https://github.com/r0gue-io/pop-docs/pull/28/commits/baa6f7f481a0ca5319772ad737b2493ca782cf2e

> When interacting with `pallet_revive` for the first time, you’ll need to map your account, this registers your 32-byte account to a corresponding 20-byte address, enabling it to interact with contracts.

Reviewer: Maybe this is a little easier to understand? It maybe is redundant to the info provided above, but I think reiterating in this case keeps things easy.

```suggestion
When interacting with `pallet_revive` for the first time, you’ll need to map your account, this registers your Polkadot account-ID (32-byte address) account to a corresponding Ethereum compatible account id (20-byte address), enabling it to interact with contracts.
```

Author: Improved with your suggestion https://github.com/r0gue-io/pop-docs/pull/28/commits/baa6f7f481a0ca5319772ad737b2493ca782cf2e

```

> **⚠️ Note:** Make sure you're using `Rust 1.85` or higher, older versions will fail to compile. You can check your version with rustc `--version`.

### Getting started with ink! v6

The workflow for developing smart contracts remains similar to ink! v5. To get started, see our guide:
[Create a new contract](./create-a-new-contract.md).

#### Migrating existing ink! smart contracts
If you already have an ink! smart contract, update your dependencies as follows:
Update your `Cargo.toml`

```toml
[dependencies]
ink = { version = "6.0.0-alpha", default-features = false }

[dev-dependencies]
ink_e2e = { version = "6.0.0-alpha" }
```

For a complete example, check the [ink! flipper example](https://github.com/use-ink/ink-examples/tree/v6.x/flipper).

#### Account Mapping
`pallet_revive` enables the deployment and execution of PolkaVM smart contracts. It introduces support for 20-byte accounts (like `EVM`), while most Polkadot-based chains use 32-byte accounts (`AccountId32`). To ensure compatibility, `pallet_revive` provides a mapping feature that lets 32-byte accounts seamlessly interact with the VM.

> When interacting with `pallet_revive` for the first time, you’ll need to map your account, this registers your Polkadot account-ID (32-byte address) to a corresponding Ethereum compatible account id (20-byte address), enabling it to interact with contracts.

Reviewer: sentence feels a little long. Here is an AI recommendation to be a little more concise
```suggestion
When first interacting with `pallet_revive`, you must map your Polkadot account ID (32 bytes) to an Ethereum-compatible 20-byte address. This registration enables your account to interact with contracts
```

Author: https://github.com/r0gue-io/pop-docs/pull/28/commits/2121d413f459480ef60bc1ec1ca96bafb46c17ba
